hey this is pressure Locker ABCD is a
rectangle
point P is 11 units from a 13 units from
B and 7 units from C what is the
distance from P to D note the point P
could either be inside the rectangle or
it could also be outside the rectangle a
variant of this problem was asked as an
interview question at Microsoft can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video or the solution
there is a special equation that always
works for rectangles and a given point P
it doesn't matter whether the point is
inside the rectangle or outside the
rectangle it is always true that AP
squared plus C P squared is equal to B P
squared plus D P squared in other words
the sum of the squared distances from P
to a set of opposite corners of the
rectangle is equal to the same sum of
the squared distances of P to the other
set of opposite corners in the rectangle
this equation will make quick work of
the problem we were given that a P
equals 11 B P equals 13 and C P equals 7
we can substitute those values into our
equation and then we can simplify it and
then solve the DP must be equal to 1 so
this is a fantastic formula because we
can figure out the distance to the
fourth corner from knowing the distances
to the other three corners and we don't
need to know whether P is inside the
rectangle or outside the rectangle and
we don't know anything about the
rectangle like its length and width we
can still figure out the distance from P
to the fourth corner of the rectangle
now this is a rarely taught equation but
it has a kind of interesting name we can
represent it geometrically as follows we
have a P squared which we can represent
as an area that's a square C P squared
we can also draw a square for the other
distances we'll draw them as red squares
for this equation to be true it means
that the total area of the blue squares
is equal to the total area of the red
squares now this diagram has a vague
resemblance to the Union Jack and so
this is actually known as the British
flag theorem it's rarely taught in
school
but as we'll see it's actually an
extension of the Pythagorean theorem so
now let's prove why this equation is
true we'll start out with the rectangle
and we'll put point P inside the
rectangle the proof will be similar when
P is outside the rectangle so now we'll
draw all of the distances from the
corners to the point P what we'll do is
we'll draw a vertical line that's
perpendicular to C D and a B that runs
through P we'll label the intersections
as E and F we're now going to write in
some variables for the distances will
say that the horizontal distance from a
to P is equal to W the horizontal
distance from B to P is equal to X well
then say the vertical distance from a to
P is equal to Y and the vertical
distance from P to D is equal to Z so
because this is a rectangle we can
actually label some of the other lengths
in this figure we know that DF will also
be equal to W and C F will also be equal
to X so now where does this gets well
you can see that we have four right
triangles that involve the four
distances to P that we want so we can
figure out the squared distances using
the Pythagorean theorem AP squared will
be equal to W squared plus y squared B P
squared will be equal to x squared plus
y squared C P squared will be equal to x
squared plus Z squared and then DP
squared will be equal to W squared plus
Z squared now if you add up the
variables correctly it is obvious that
AP squared plus C P squared is equal to
B P squared plus D P squared because
both of them will
be equal to x squared plus y squared
plus W squared plus Z squared
thus we proven the British flag theorem
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch around my blog
mind your decisions that you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description